Here's just the upload-side slice — the part we actually specced in this conversation, nothing downstream.
The pieces:

Manager service — frontend calls it, it inserts a job row (uploading), returns 202. Knows nothing about workers.
Upload service — receives the large file, writes the raw original to S3, flips the job uploading → uploaded. Does not assign work to anyone.
Transcoding workers — separate deployment, pull uploaded jobs from the DB themselves. No dispatcher, no upload service handing out work. Bulletin-board, not a manager.

The job table:
id, status, storage_key, output_prefix,
attempts, max_attempts,
worker_id,        -- pod_name:startup_uuid
locked_until,     -- lease expiry
error_msg,
created_at, updated_at, started_at, finished_at
Index on (status, locked_until) — that's what the claim query filters on.
States: uploading → uploaded → processing → ready, plus failed (retryable, attempts < max), dead (poison, terminal), cancelled (user, terminal). Only ready is streamable. Terminal states never get re-picked — enforced by a transition function, not by hope.
The four mechanisms that make it correct:

Claim via SELECT ... FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED — two live workers never grab the same job. Same query also re-picks lease-expired (processing + locked_until < now()) and retryable (failed + attempts < max) jobs.
Lease + heartbeat (locked_until) — crashed worker's lease expires, another worker reclaims. No stuck jobs.
Ownership assertion on write-back (WHERE worker_id = ?) — a stale worker can't stomp the new owner's result. This is why worker_id = pod name + a startup UUID generated once per process (not per claim).
Idempotent transcode — write to a staging S3 prefix, flip to ready pointing at the final path only as the last atomic step. Double-run wastes CPU, never serves a half-written directory. This enforces the invariant: a video is never served half-transcoded.

attempts increments at claim time (so a hard-crashing poison job still converges to dead instead of looping forever).
The correction that matters most from this conversation: you twice reached for the upload service assigning jobs to workers. That's push-based dispatch — it recreates the double-assignment race one layer up and adds a single point of failure. The fix was pull: the upload service writes "this job needs transcoding" and walks away; anonymous workers claim it themselves. No worker registry, no assignment tracking.
Start with the schema migration and the claim query — that's the load-bearing piece; the upload HTTP handler and worker loop both hang off it. Migration first, or the Go claim/heartbeat loop?


2. in future will need a notification service